What is Family Planning?

Family planning by definition is deciding the number and spacing of your children
through the use of contraception such as abstinence, natural planning or hormal 
birth control.

Family planning is having the desired number of children and when you want 
to have them by using safe and effective modern methods. Proper 
birth spacing is having children 3 to 5 years apart, which is best
for the health of mother, her child and the family.

What are the benefits of using Family Planning
1. Mother 
- Enables her to regain her health after delivery.
- Gives enough time and opportunity to love and provide to her
husband and children.
- Gives more time for her family and own personal advancement.

2. Children
- Healthy mothers produce healthy children.
- Will get all the attention, security love and care they
deserve.

3.Father
-Lightens the burden and responsibility in supporting his family.
- Gives him time for his family and own personal advancement.
- Enables him to give his children their basic needs such as foods, 
shelter, education and better future. 

What is Contraception?
Contraception tries to stop this happening by keeping the egg and
sperm apart or by stopping egg production or by stopping the 
combined sperm and egg (fertilised egg) attaching to the lining of 
the womb. 

Contraception(birth control) prevents pregnancy by interfering with
the normal process of ovulation, fertilization and implantation.

Type of Contraception
1. Birth control Pill -
Description : Prescription pill containing estrogen and
progestin that suppresses ovulation 
use : Must be taken daily, regardless of the frequency of 
intercourse.

2. IUD (Intra Uterine Device) -
Decription : T-shaped device inserted in the uterus during a visit to the doctor.
Use : Can remain in place for up to one or 10 years depending on type.

3. Implant
When it start to work 
- During the first five days of you menstrual cycle, you
will be immediately protected against becoming pregnant.
If it is fitted on any other daya of your menstrual cycle,
you will not be protected against pregnancy for up to seven day.

4. Injection 
When it starts to Work
- If you have the injection during the first five days of your 
cycle, you will be immediately protected against becoming pregnant.
If you have the injection on any other day of your cycle,
you will not bbe protected against pregnancy for up to seven day.